next/README.md, before:

# UpSet.js

[![NPM Package][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Github Actions][github-actions-image]][github-actions-url]

UpSet.js is a JavaScript re-implementation of [UpSetR](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/UpSetR/) which itself is based on [UpSet](http://vcg.github.io/upset/about/) to create interactive set visualizations for more than three sets. The core library is written in React but provides also bundle editions for plain JavaScript use. The `UpSet` React component is implemented as a pure functional component solely depending on the given properties.

![interactions](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372064-b262f980-7f55-11ea-872e-6e6857c0df82.png)

This monorepo contains following packages:

- [@upsetjs/model](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/model) the data model definition of UpSet.js
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/model)

- [@upsetjs/react](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/react) the main UpSet.js React component
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/react)

- [@upsetjs/math](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/math) utility package for computing stats

- [@upsetjs/addons](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/addons) extensions to the React component for rendering boxplots
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/addons)

- [@upsetjs/bundle](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/bundle) zero dependency bundle of the react and addons component using Preact
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/bundle)

- [@upsetjs/app](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/app) example application to explore datasets using UpSet.js with import and export features
  [![Open Example][example]](https://upset.js.org/app)

- [@upsetjs/vue](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/vue) vue wrapper based on the bundled version

- [@upsetjs/vue-example](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/vue-example) vue example using the vue wrapper
  [![Open Example][example]](https://upset.js.org/integrations/vue)

In addition, there are the following sibling repositories and projects

- [upsetjs_r](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r) R HTMLWidget wrapper around UpSet.js
  [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-r-url] [![Open Docs][docs]][docs-r-url] [![Open example][example]][example-r-url]

- [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget) Jupyter Widget wrapper around UpSet.js
  [![Open in NBViewer][nbviewer]][nbviewer-url] [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-j-url] [![Open API Docs][docs]][docs-j-url] [![Open Example][example]][example-j-url]

- [upsetjs_powerbi_visuals](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals) PowerBI Custom Visuals around UpSet.js
- [upsetjs_tableau_extension](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_tableau_extension) Tableau extension around UpSet.js
- [upset-js](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js) Observable HQ wrapper around UpSet.js [![Open Example][example]][example-o-url]

## Usage and Installation

### React

```sh
npm install @upsetjs/react react react-dom
```

```ts
import React from 'react';
import UpSet, { extractSets, generateIntersections, ISetLike } from '@upsetjs/react';

const elems = [
  { name: 'A', sets: ['S1', 'S2'] },
  { name: 'B', sets: ['S1'] },
  { name: 'C', sets: ['S2'] },
  { name: 'D', sets: ['S1', 'S3'] },
];

const sets = extractSets(elems);
const combinations = generateIntersections(sets);

<UpSet sets={sets} combinations={combinations} width={500} height={300} />;
```

with stored selection

```ts
const UpSetSelection = (props: any) => {
  [selection, setSelection] = React.useState(null as ISetLike<any> | null);

  return <UpSet {...props} selection={selection} onHover={setSelection} />;
};

<UpSetSelection sets={sets} combinations={combinations} />;
```

![simple](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372711-4cc33d00-7f56-11ea-865e-e1f74261ccb2.png)

see also [Storybook Documentation](https://upset.js.org/api/?path=/docs/upset--default)

### Bundled version

```sh
npm install @upsetjs/bundle
```

```js
import { extractSets, generateIntersections, renderUpSet } from '@upsetjs/bundle';

const elems = [
  { name: 'A', sets: ['S1', 'S2'] },
  { name: 'B', sets: ['S1'] },
  { name: 'C', sets: ['S2'] },
  { name: 'D', sets: ['S1', 'S3'] },
];

const sets = extractSets(elems);
const combinations = generateIntersections(sets);

renderUpSet(document.body, { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300 });
```

with stored selection

```js
let selection = null;

function onHover(set) {
  selection = set;
  render();
}

function render() {
  const props = { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300, selection, onHover };
  renderUpSet(document.body, props);
}

render();
```

![simple](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372711-4cc33d00-7f56-11ea-865e-e1f74261ccb2.png)

see also [![Open in CodePen][codepen]](https://codepen.io/sgratzl/pen/GRpoMZY)

## More features

**Interactivity**

By specifying `onHover` and `selection` `UpSet` is fully interactive. As an alternative there is also the `onClick` property.

![interactions](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372064-b262f980-7f55-11ea-872e-6e6857c0df82.png)

**Queries**

Similar to the original UpSetR, `UpSet` allows to specify queries by a set of elements which are then highlighted in the plot.
The first query is shown in full detail while others are shown using small indicators.

```ts
const queries = [
  { name: 'Q1', color: 'steelblue', elems: elems.filter(() => Math.random() > 0.7) },
  { name: 'Q2', color: 'red', elems: elems.filter(() => Math.random() > 0.8) },
];

renderUpSet(document.body, { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300, queries });
```

![queries](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79373208-9a3faa00-7f56-11ea-8281-47dabb9b42b9.png)

see also [![Open in CodePen][codepen]](https://codepen.io/sgratzl/pen/BaNmpJq)

**Addons**

Similar to the original UpSet and UpSetR, `UpSet` allows to render boxplot for showing numerical aggregates of sets and set combinations.

```ts
import { extractSets, renderUpSet, boxplotAddon } from '@upsetjs/bundle';

const elems = [
  { name: '1', sets: ['one', 'two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '2', sets: ['one', 'two'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '3', sets: ['one'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '4', sets: ['two'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '5', sets: ['one', 'two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '6', sets: ['three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '7', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '8', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '9', sets: ['three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '10', sets: ['two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '11', sets: ['one'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '12', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '13', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
];
const sets = extractSets(elems);

renderUpSet(document.body, {
  sets,
  width: 500,
  height: 300,
  setAddons: [boxplotAddon('value', elems)],
  combinationAddons: [boxplotAddon('value', elems, { orient: 'vertical' })],
});
```

![addons](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79564225-85762a00-80ae-11ea-80ae-1d01a43ec45a.png)

## UpSet.js App

The UpSet.js App is an web application for exploring sets and set intersections. It is the counterpart to the original [UpSet](http://vcg.github.io/upset/about/) and [UpSet2](https://vdl.sci.utah.edu/upset2/). The app is deployed at [https://upset.js.org/app](https://upset.js.org/app).

![upset_app1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79368561-e3d8c680-7f4f-11ea-9a87-f4421a3846cf.png)

## Components

see [Storybook](https://upset.js.org/api/?path=/docs/upset--default) for demos and properties.

### UpSet

The most relevant and required properties of the `UpSet` component are:

```ts
{
  width: number;
  height: number;

  sets: ISet<T>[];
  combinations?: ISetCombination<T>[] | GenerateCombinations<T>;

  selection?: ISetLike<T> | null;

  onHover?(selection: ISetLike<T> | null): void;
  onClick?(selection: ISetLike<T>): void;

  queries?: UpSetQuery<T>[];
}
```

## Data

`UpSet` requires sets and optionally combinations of sets as input. There are some utility function to help creating the required data structures:

- `extractSets<T extends { sets: string[] }>(elements: ReadonlyArray<T>): ISet<T>[]`
  given an array of elements where each is having a property called `.sets` containing a list of set names in which this element is part of. e.g. `{ sets: ['Blue Hair', 'Female']}`. The return value is a list of sets in the required data structures and having a `.elems` with an array of the input elements.
- `asSets<T, S extends { name: string; elems: ReadonlyArray<T> }>(sets: ReadonlyArray<S>): (S & ISet<T>)[]`
  extends the given basic set objects (`name` and `elems`) with the required attributes for `UpSet`
- `generateIntersections<T>(sets: ISets<T>, { min = 0, max = Infinity, empty = false } = {}): ISetIntersection<T>[]`
  one needs to generate the list of the intersections to show in case of customized sorting or filtering. This function takes the array of sets as input and computed all possible set intersections (aka. power set). The options allow to limit the generation to skip `empty` set intersections or enforce a minimum/maximum amount of sets in the intersection.
- `generateUnions<T>(sets: ISets<T>, { min = 2, max = Infinity } = {}): ISetUnion<T>[]`
  one needs to generate the list of the unions to show in case of customized sorting or filtering. This function takes the array of sets as input and computed all possible set unions (aka. power set). The options allow to enforce a minimum/maximum amount of sets in the union.

## Integration

### Observable HQ

[![Open Example][example]][example-o-url]

A [ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/) wrapper is located at [upset-js](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js)

```js
data = fetch(
  'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/master/packages/bundle/example/simpsons.json'
).then(r => r.json())
}
```

```js
import { extractSets, UpSet, generateIntersections } from '@sgratzl/upset-js';
```

```js
sets = extractSets(data);
```

```js
intersections = generateIntersections(sets);
```

```js
viewof selection = UpSet(sets, intersections)
```

```js
selection ? selection.elems.map((d) => d.name) : 'None';
```

[ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js)

An advanced example showing all datasets from the live UpSet demo is located at [ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-observable-dataset-chooser-example)

### R/RMarkdown/RShiny HTMLWidget

[Open in Binder][binder]][binder-r-url][open docs][docs]][docs-r-url][open example][example]][example-r-url]

A R wrapper using [HTMLWidgets](https://www.htmlwidgets.org/) is located at [upset_r](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r). The API follows the building pattern using the chaining operator `%>%`.
In contrast to the original UpsetR implementation it focusses on the UpSet plot itself only. However it supports interactivity either using custom Shiny events or HTMLWidgets Crosstalk. See also Shiny examples.

```R
devtools::install_url("https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.tar.gz")
library(upsetjs)
```

```R
listInput <- list(one = c(1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13), two = c(1, 2, 4, 5, 10), three = c(1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13))
upsetjs() %>% fromList(listInput) %>% interactiveChart()
```

![List Input Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79375541-10dda700-7f59-11ea-933a-a3ffbca1bfd2.png)

see also [Basic.Rmd](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/master/vignettes/basic.Rmd)

### Juptyer Widget

[![Open in NBViewer][nbviewer]][nbviewer-url] [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-j-url] [![Open API Docs][docs]][docs-j-url] [Open Example][example]][example-j-url]

A Juptyer Widget wrapper is located at [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget).

```bash
pip install upsetjs_jupyter_widget
jupyter labextension install @jupyter-widgets/jupyterlab-manager@3.0.0-alpha.0
```

```python
from upsetjs_jupyter_widget import UpSetWidget
```

```python
w = UpSetWidget[str]()
w.from_dict(dict(one = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'e', 'g', 'h', 'k', 'l', 'm'], two = ['a', 'b', 'd', 'e', 'j'], three = ['a', 'e', 'f', 'g', 'h', 'i', 'j', 'l', 'm']))
w
```

![upset_from_dict](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79368564-e4715d00-7f4f-11ea-92f5-23ee89b5332f.png)

### PowerBI

A [PowerBI Custom Visual](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/developers/custom-visualization/?cdn=disable) is located at [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget).

Download the latest package from [https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.pbiviz](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.pbiviz) and install into your PowerBI environment.

![UpSet.js Report](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79641879-808ea480-819a-11ea-87f9-441c3647812f.png)

### Tableau

A [Tableau](https://tableau.com) extension is located at [upsetjs_tableau_extension](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_tableau_extension).

1. Download the extension description file at [upsetjs.trex](https://upset.js.org/integrations/tableau/upsetjs.trex)
1. Create a new dashboard and show at least one sheet in the dashboard
1. Follow [https://tableau.github.io/extensions-api/docs/trex_overview.html](https://tableau.github.io/extensions-api/docs/trex_overview.html) and choose the downloaded file
1. Use the `configure` button or the `configure` menu entry to specify the input data

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/80474503-d3f5b500-8947-11ea-8397-345a5efb5a65.png)

## Dev Environment

```sh
npm i -g yarn
yarn set version berry
yarn plugin import version
yarn plugin import plugin-workspace-tools
yarn install
yarn pnpify --sdk
```

### Commands

### Storybook

Run inside another terminal:

```sh
yarn workspace @upsetjs/react storybook
```

### Testing

```sh
yarn test
```

### Linting

```sh
yarn lint
```

### Building

```sh
yarn install
yarn build
```

### Release

```sh
yarn workspaces foreach --verbose version patch --deferred
yarn version apply --all
git commit -am 'release vX.X.X'
git push
git tag vX.X.X
git push --tags
yarn build
yarn workspaces foreach --verbose npm publish --access public
```

## Privacy Policy

UpSet.js is a client only library. The library or any of its integrations doesn't track you or transfers your data to any server. The uploaded data in the app are stored in your browser only using IndexedDB. The Tableau extension can run in a sandbox environment prohibiting any server requests. However, as soon as you export your session within the app to an external service (e.g., Codepen.io) your data will be transferred.

## License / Terms of Service

### Commercial license

If you want to use Upset.js for a commercial application the commercial license is the appropriate license. Contact [@sgratzl](mailto:sam@sgratzl.com) for details.

### Open-source license

This library is released under the `GNU AGPLv3` version to be used for private and academic purposes. In case of a commercial use, please get in touch regarding a commercial license.

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40upsetjs%2Freact.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/@upsetjs/react
[github-actions-image]: https://github.com/sgratzl/upsetjs/workflows/ci/badge.svg
[github-actions-url]: https://github.com/sgratzl/upsetjs/actions
[codepen]: https://img.shields.io/badge/CodePen-open-blue?logo=codepen
[nbviewer]: https://img.shields.io/badge/NBViewer-open-blue?logo=jupyter
[nbviewer-url]: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget/blob/master/examples/introduction.ipynb
[binder]: https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg
[binder-r-url]: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/master?urlpath=rstudio
[binder-j-url]: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget/master?urlpath=lab/tree/examples/introduction.ipynb
[docs]: https://img.shields.io/badge/API-open-blue
[docs-r-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/r
[docs-j-url]: https://upset.js.org/api/jupyter
[example]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Example-open-red
[example-r-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/r/articles/basic
[example-j-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/jupyter
[example-o-url]: https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-observable-example

Commit message:

deploy: upsetjs/upsetjs@e57b4d912eb43c43d7e950e50562b741ef830461

next/README.md, after:

# UpSet.js

[![NPM Package][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Github Actions][github-actions-image]][github-actions-url]

UpSet.js is a JavaScript re-implementation of [UpSetR](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/UpSetR/) which itself is based on [UpSet](http://vcg.github.io/upset/about/) to create interactive set visualizations for more than three sets. The core library is written in React but provides also bundle editions for plain JavaScript use. The `UpSet` React component is implemented as a pure functional component solely depending on the given properties.

![interactions](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372064-b262f980-7f55-11ea-872e-6e6857c0df82.png)

This monorepo contains following packages:

- [@upsetjs/model](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/model) the data model definition of UpSet.js
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/model)

- [@upsetjs/react](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/react) the main UpSet.js React component
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/react)

- [@upsetjs/math](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/math) utility package for computing stats

- [@upsetjs/addons](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/addons) extensions to the React component for rendering boxplots
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/addons)

- [@upsetjs/bundle](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/bundle) zero dependency bundle of the react and addons component using Preact
  [![Open Docs][docs]](https://upset.js.org/api/bundle)

- [@upsetjs/app](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/app) example application to explore datasets using UpSet.js with import and export features
  [![Open Example][example]](https://upset.js.org/app)

- [@upsetjs/vue](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/vue) vue wrapper based on the bundled version

- [@upsetjs/vue-example](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/tree/master/packages/vue-example) vue example using the vue wrapper
  [![Open Example][example]](https://upset.js.org/integrations/vue)

In addition, there are the following sibling repositories and projects

- [upsetjs_r](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r) R HTMLWidget wrapper around UpSet.js
  [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-r-url] [![Open Docs][docs]][docs-r-url] [![Open example][example]][example-r-url]

- [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget) Jupyter Widget wrapper around UpSet.js
  [![Open in NBViewer][nbviewer]][nbviewer-url] [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-j-url] [![Open API Docs][docs]][docs-j-url] [![Open Example][example]][example-j-url]

- [upsetjs_powerbi_visuals](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals) PowerBI Custom Visuals around UpSet.js
- [upsetjs_tableau_extension](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_tableau_extension) Tableau extension around UpSet.js
- [upset-js](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js) Observable HQ wrapper around UpSet.js [![Open Example][example]][example-o-url]

## Usage and Installation

### React

```sh
npm install @upsetjs/react react react-dom
```

```ts
import React from 'react';
import UpSet, { extractSets, generateIntersections, ISetLike } from '@upsetjs/react';

const elems = [
  { name: 'A', sets: ['S1', 'S2'] },
  { name: 'B', sets: ['S1'] },
  { name: 'C', sets: ['S2'] },
  { name: 'D', sets: ['S1', 'S3'] },
];

const sets = extractSets(elems);
const combinations = generateIntersections(sets);

<UpSet sets={sets} combinations={combinations} width={500} height={300} />;
```

with stored selection

```ts
const UpSetSelection = (props: any) => {
  [selection, setSelection] = React.useState(null as ISetLike<any> | null);

  return <UpSet {...props} selection={selection} onHover={setSelection} />;
};

<UpSetSelection sets={sets} combinations={combinations} />;
```

![simple](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372711-4cc33d00-7f56-11ea-865e-e1f74261ccb2.png)

see also [Storybook Documentation](https://upset.js.org/api/?path=/docs/upset--default)

### Bundled version

```sh
npm install @upsetjs/bundle
```

```js
import { extractSets, generateIntersections, renderUpSet } from '@upsetjs/bundle';

const elems = [
  { name: 'A', sets: ['S1', 'S2'] },
  { name: 'B', sets: ['S1'] },
  { name: 'C', sets: ['S2'] },
  { name: 'D', sets: ['S1', 'S3'] },
];

const sets = extractSets(elems);
const combinations = generateIntersections(sets);

renderUpSet(document.body, { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300 });
```

with stored selection

```js
let selection = null;

function onHover(set) {
  selection = set;
  render();
}

function render() {
  const props = { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300, selection, onHover };
  renderUpSet(document.body, props);
}

render();
```

![simple](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372711-4cc33d00-7f56-11ea-865e-e1f74261ccb2.png)

see also [![Open in CodePen][codepen]](https://codepen.io/sgratzl/pen/GRpoMZY)

## More features

**Interactivity**

By specifying `onHover` and `selection` `UpSet` is fully interactive. As an alternative there is also the `onClick` property.

![interactions](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79372064-b262f980-7f55-11ea-872e-6e6857c0df82.png)

**Queries**

Similar to the original UpSetR, `UpSet` allows to specify queries by a set of elements which are then highlighted in the plot.
The first query is shown in full detail while others are shown using small indicators.

```ts
const queries = [
  { name: 'Q1', color: 'steelblue', elems: elems.filter(() => Math.random() > 0.7) },
  { name: 'Q2', color: 'red', elems: elems.filter(() => Math.random() > 0.8) },
];

renderUpSet(document.body, { sets, combinations, width: 500, height: 300, queries });
```

![queries](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79373208-9a3faa00-7f56-11ea-8281-47dabb9b42b9.png)

see also [![Open in CodePen][codepen]](https://codepen.io/sgratzl/pen/BaNmpJq)

**Addons**

Similar to the original UpSet and UpSetR, `UpSet` allows to render boxplot for showing numerical aggregates of sets and set combinations.

```ts
import { extractSets, renderUpSet, boxplotAddon } from '@upsetjs/bundle';

const elems = [
  { name: '1', sets: ['one', 'two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '2', sets: ['one', 'two'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '3', sets: ['one'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '4', sets: ['two'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '5', sets: ['one', 'two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '6', sets: ['three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '7', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '8', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '9', sets: ['three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '10', sets: ['two', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '11', sets: ['one'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '12', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
  { name: '13', sets: ['one', 'three'], value: Math.random() },
];
const sets = extractSets(elems);

renderUpSet(document.body, {
  sets,
  width: 500,
  height: 300,
  setAddons: [boxplotAddon('value', elems)],
  combinationAddons: [boxplotAddon('value', elems, { orient: 'vertical' })],
});
```

![addons](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79564225-85762a00-80ae-11ea-80ae-1d01a43ec45a.png)

## UpSet.js App

The UpSet.js App is an web application for exploring sets and set intersections. It is the counterpart to the original [UpSet](http://vcg.github.io/upset/about/) and [UpSet2](https://vdl.sci.utah.edu/upset2/). The app is deployed at [https://upset.js.org/app](https://upset.js.org/app).

![upset_app1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79368561-e3d8c680-7f4f-11ea-9a87-f4421a3846cf.png)

## Components

see [Storybook](https://upset.js.org/api/?path=/docs/upset--default) for demos and properties.

### UpSet

The most relevant and required properties of the `UpSet` component are:

```ts
{
  width: number;
  height: number;

  sets: ISet<T>[];
  combinations?: ISetCombination<T>[] | GenerateCombinations<T>;

  selection?: ISetLike<T> | null;

  onHover?(selection: ISetLike<T> | null): void;
  onClick?(selection: ISetLike<T>): void;

  queries?: UpSetQuery<T>[];
}
```

## Data

`UpSet` requires sets and optionally combinations of sets as input. There are some utility function to help creating the required data structures:

- `extractSets<T extends { sets: string[] }>(elements: ReadonlyArray<T>): ISet<T>[]`
  given an array of elements where each is having a property called `.sets` containing a list of set names in which this element is part of. e.g. `{ sets: ['Blue Hair', 'Female']}`. The return value is a list of sets in the required data structures and having a `.elems` with an array of the input elements.
- `asSets<T, S extends { name: string; elems: ReadonlyArray<T> }>(sets: ReadonlyArray<S>): (S & ISet<T>)[]`
  extends the given basic set objects (`name` and `elems`) with the required attributes for `UpSet`
- `generateIntersections<T>(sets: ISets<T>, { min = 0, max = Infinity, empty = false } = {}): ISetIntersection<T>[]`
  one needs to generate the list of the intersections to show in case of customized sorting or filtering. This function takes the array of sets as input and computed all possible set intersections (aka. power set). The options allow to limit the generation to skip `empty` set intersections or enforce a minimum/maximum amount of sets in the intersection.
- `generateUnions<T>(sets: ISets<T>, { min = 2, max = Infinity } = {}): ISetUnion<T>[]`
  one needs to generate the list of the unions to show in case of customized sorting or filtering. This function takes the array of sets as input and computed all possible set unions (aka. power set). The options allow to enforce a minimum/maximum amount of sets in the union.

## Integration

### Observable HQ

[![Open Example][example]][example-o-url]

A [ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/) wrapper is located at [upset-js](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js)

```js
data = fetch(
  'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/upsetjs/upsetjs/master/packages/bundle/example/simpsons.json'
).then(r => r.json())
}
```

```js
import { extractSets, UpSet, generateIntersections } from '@sgratzl/upset-js';
```

```js
sets = extractSets(data);
```

```js
intersections = generateIntersections(sets);
```

```js
viewof selection = UpSet(sets, intersections)
```

```js
selection ? selection.elems.map((d) => d.name) : 'None';
```

[ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-js)

An advanced example showing all datasets from the live UpSet demo is located at [ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-observable-dataset-chooser-example)

### R/RMarkdown/RShiny HTMLWidget

[Open in Binder][binder]][binder-r-url][open docs][docs]][docs-r-url][open example][example]][example-r-url]

A R wrapper using [HTMLWidgets](https://www.htmlwidgets.org/) is located at [upset_r](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r). The API follows the building pattern using the chaining operator `%>%`.
In contrast to the original UpsetR implementation it focusses on the UpSet plot itself only. However it supports interactivity either using custom Shiny events or HTMLWidgets Crosstalk. See also Shiny examples.

```R
devtools::install_url("https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.tar.gz")
library(upsetjs)
```

```R
listInput <- list(one = c(1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13), two = c(1, 2, 4, 5, 10), three = c(1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13))
upsetjs() %>% fromList(listInput) %>% interactiveChart()
```

![List Input Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79375541-10dda700-7f59-11ea-933a-a3ffbca1bfd2.png)

see also [Basic.Rmd](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/master/vignettes/basic.Rmd)

### Juptyer Widget

[![Open in NBViewer][nbviewer]][nbviewer-url] [![Open in Binder][binder]][binder-j-url] [![Open API Docs][docs]][docs-j-url] [Open Example][example]][example-j-url]

A Juptyer Widget wrapper is located at [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget).

```bash
pip install upsetjs_jupyter_widget
jupyter labextension install @jupyter-widgets/jupyterlab-manager@3.0.0-alpha.0
```

```python
from upsetjs_jupyter_widget import UpSetWidget
```

```python
w = UpSetWidget[str]()
w.from_dict(dict(one = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'e', 'g', 'h', 'k', 'l', 'm'], two = ['a', 'b', 'd', 'e', 'j'], three = ['a', 'e', 'f', 'g', 'h', 'i', 'j', 'l', 'm']))
w
```

![upset_from_dict](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79368564-e4715d00-7f4f-11ea-92f5-23ee89b5332f.png)

### PowerBI

A [PowerBI Custom Visual](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/developers/custom-visualization/?cdn=disable) is located at [upsetjs_jupyter_widget](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget).

Download the latest package from [https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.pbiviz](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_powerbi_visuals/releases/latest/download/upsetjs.pbiviz) and install into your PowerBI environment.

![UpSet.js Report](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/79641879-808ea480-819a-11ea-87f9-441c3647812f.png)

### Tableau

A [Tableau](https://tableau.com) extension is located at [upsetjs_tableau_extension](https://github.com/upsetjs/upsetjs_tableau_extension).

1. Download the extension description file at [upsetjs.trex](https://upset.js.org/integrations/tableau/upsetjs.trex)
1. Create a new dashboard and show at least one sheet in the dashboard
1. Follow [https://tableau.github.io/extensions-api/docs/trex_overview.html](https://tableau.github.io/extensions-api/docs/trex_overview.html) and choose the downloaded file
1. Use the `configure` button or the `configure` menu entry to specify the input data

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4129778/80474503-d3f5b500-8947-11ea-8397-345a5efb5a65.png)

## Dev Environment

```sh
npm i -g yarn
yarn set version berry
yarn plugin import version
yarn plugin import plugin-workspace-tools
yarn install
yarn pnpify --sdk
```

### Commands

### Storybook

Run inside another terminal:

```sh
yarn workspace @upsetjs/react storybook
```

### Testing

```sh
yarn test
```

### Linting

```sh
yarn lint
```

### Building

```sh
yarn install
yarn build
```

### Release

```sh
yarn workspaces foreach --verbose version vX.X.X --deferred
yarn version apply --all
git commit -am 'release vX.X.X'
git push
git tag vX.X.X
git push --tags
yarn build
yarn workspaces foreach --verbose npm publish --access public
```

### Release Policy

to simplify this monorepo together with its siblings the following strategy for versioning is used: 
Major and Minor versions should be in sync. Patch version are independent except the 10 potent. 
Thus, a next unified patch release should be increased to the next 10 potent. 

e.g., 
```
upsetjs -> 0.5.0, upsetjs_r -> 0.5.0 good
upsetjs -> 0.5.2, upsetjs_r -> 0.5.3 good since 0.5.02 ~ 0.5.03
upsetjs -> 0.5.10, upsetjs_r -> 0.5.5 bad should be upsetjs_r -> 0.5.10, too
```

## Privacy Policy

UpSet.js is a client only library. The library or any of its integrations doesn't track you or transfers your data to any server. The uploaded data in the app are stored in your browser only using IndexedDB. The Tableau extension can run in a sandbox environment prohibiting any server requests. However, as soon as you export your session within the app to an external service (e.g., Codepen.io) your data will be transferred.

## License / Terms of Service

### Commercial license

If you want to use Upset.js for a commercial application the commercial license is the appropriate license. Contact [@sgratzl](mailto:sam@sgratzl.com) for details.

### Open-source license

This library is released under the `GNU AGPLv3` version to be used for private and academic purposes. In case of a commercial use, please get in touch regarding a commercial license.

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40upsetjs%2Freact.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/@upsetjs/react
[github-actions-image]: https://github.com/sgratzl/upsetjs/workflows/ci/badge.svg
[github-actions-url]: https://github.com/sgratzl/upsetjs/actions
[codepen]: https://img.shields.io/badge/CodePen-open-blue?logo=codepen
[nbviewer]: https://img.shields.io/badge/NBViewer-open-blue?logo=jupyter
[nbviewer-url]: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget/blob/master/examples/introduction.ipynb
[binder]: https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg
[binder-r-url]: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/upsetjs/upsetjs_r/master?urlpath=rstudio
[binder-j-url]: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/upsetjs/upsetjs_jupyter_widget/master?urlpath=lab/tree/examples/introduction.ipynb
[docs]: https://img.shields.io/badge/API-open-blue
[docs-r-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/r
[docs-j-url]: https://upset.js.org/api/jupyter
[example]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Example-open-red
[example-r-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/r/articles/basic
[example-j-url]: https://upset.js.org/integrations/jupyter
[example-o-url]: https://observablehq.com/@sgratzl/upset-observable-example
